As healthcare turns costlier in developed countries, the availability of accredited facilities is drawing hundreds to India. As a result, the Indian medical tourism market is expected to grow from $3 billion at present to around $8 billion by 2020. Witnessing an annual growth of 30% in medical tourism, India is set to become the number one destination for patients requiring medical attention. Cashing in on this demand, players in this space are making a medical trip for a visitor as convenient as a vacation.A Pune-based medical company has about 1500 partnerships with hospitals and doctors in India and Turkey. The company has provided services to about 1000 patients. They describe themselves as an only* marketplace for medical tourism and not a discovery platform. In this company, all details are prowls, on the website and on payment of a token amount one can immediately buy a package/treatment with a hospital. The company also provides concierge medical services, such as visas, hotel and accommodation and sight-seeing, as value-added services.Another medical centre which gets about 15 patients a month, provides a list of various treatments, with categories like cancer treatment packages, and cosmetic surgery packages, among others, along with their pricing details. Walking clients through every step, right from when they plan to leave their home country till they are back home after the surgery, the company provides medical opinion and evaluations, suggestions with details of fees and stay, besides post-operative care.While lower costs have always buoyed India’s position as a favoured medical tourist spot, the cost is not the only reason for drawing people to these facilities. It is also the quality of care and a personalized experience that these places are providing and which counts. The international patient care teams at these places are the key. Realising that India is more individual-oriented, unlike the West which is more process-driven, the staff at these places are trained to understand the culture of various countries, starting with the basic etiquette of greeting a person, to their festivals. The idea is to create a personalized interaction with the patient. Thus India has adopted a system that has a more holistic approach.As the non-metropolitan cities offer a lower rate for the same level of medical quality, substantial growth is foreseen in these places. However, the availability of direct flights has a significant bearing in the choice of locations. But with new opportunities come new challenges. For India, it is staying up on the curve to appease the international audience.