Smokers are slowly being hounded out of all public spaces—be it aeroplanes, offices, restaurants or public places. Still, Vikas Goel was surprised when he got a letter from his apartment manager asking all tenants to stop smoking in their homes from January 1 next year or leave the building. “Smoking is already taboo in restaurants, in the workplace, public places, cabs and bars. Now you cannot do it in your own home,” says Goel, who after a decade of smoking, gave up the habit because it was becoming near impossible to find a place where he could light up. Growing restrictions and the many diseases associated with tobacco use are prompting many others like him to stop. In the US, 19 states have adopted legislation against cigarette smoking. In India, smoking is banned in public places and tobacco products cannot be advertised or shown in films and television programmes without a health warning.  Despite raising taxes and increasing restrictions against tobacco use in India, the number of smokers is going up. There are 250 million smokers in India. And if you go by WHO statistics, over 50 per cent-125 million—of them will die prematurely of a tobacco-related disease. “Unfortunately, most people in India still need an alarming health report before they think of giving up smoking. “Unfortunately, patients seek help only after they develop health problems and are advised to quit,” says Dr R.R. Kasliwal, Director, Cardiology, Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre. “That is one reason why we have set up a Centre for Early Detection of Cardiovascular Diseases at Escorts to help identify risk factors among the young so that they can take preventive measures such as quitting smoking early in life,” says Kasliwal.  Tobacco use is the second biggest cause of death in the world. It currently kills about 5 million people—one in 10 adult deaths—each year globally. Half the people that smoke or consume tobacco in other forms today—about 650 million people—will eventually be killed by their habit, says WHO. Indian data is no better. Many people quit on their own, but those who find it difficult can go to a tobacco cessation expert who uses a combination of counselling, nicotine replacement therapy and prescription drugs to help ex-smokers deal with withdrawal symptoms. “Quitting cold turkey—stopping tobacco use suddenly—works for people who have made up their minds to quit,” says Dr Rajesh Chawla, Senior Consultant, Respiratory Medicine, Apollo Hospital.